{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs22\lang9 X-Plane 11 Default KingAir C90B Update Version 1.0.0 Description\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 This is a modified ACF file for the X-Plane 11 Default KingAir C90B aircraft that resolves several flight dynamics and stability issues of this otherwise great aircraft, including the annoying constant tendency to roll right during level flight.  While this default X-Plane 11 aircraft is an amazingly complete and accurate simulation of the real thing, there were some minor changes needed to improve its overall performance and stability and make it more closely match the real world aircraft.\par
First, the forward and aft CG limits have been updated to conform to the published FAA certification data for this aircraft.  The default CG location has also been moved further aft, and slightly higher, to be within these limits and to more closely approximate the aircrafts default payload and fuel configuration in X-Plane.  This greatly improves the takeoff and landing performance, and overall stability of the aircraft.  The previously recommended 5 degrees of up trim is no longer needed for takeoff.  Setting the flaps to Approach (15 degrees) for normal takeoffs is still highly recommended, and provides much more stability and ease of handling during the takeoff and initial climbout.\par
In addition, changes in engine power no longer cause the aircraft nose to pitch up or down.\par
The aircraft has been re-trimmed, as close as possible, for hands off straight and level flight during cruise, and all of the trim controls have been made finer so it is easier to obtain the required settings for stable flight.  But, like most high performance aircraft, this plane is designed to be flown primarily with the autopilot during cruise, to reduce pilot workload and fatigue.\par
The flight dynamics of the flaps have also been improved a little.  The final approach speed is now 90 to 100 knots with full flaps, and the nose is no longer pitched excessively down during the final approach.  The previous nose heavy tendancy during the landing flare has also been reduced, allowing for less porpoising and much smoother touchdowns.\par
The landing gear tire friction has been increased slightly for better taxi speed control, and to allow the plane to come to and remain at a complete stop at idle power during taxi.  However, correct taxi performance, without requiring constant application of the brakes, still requires the Condition (Mixture) levers to be in the proper Low Idle (50%) position.  Also, the main gear wheels are no longer hovering slightly above the runway.\par
These modifications greatly improve the overall stability and flight dynamics of this great high performance aircraft, making it much more realistic and enjoyable to fly. \par
Note:  The change in the default CG location will affect any Internal views (Quick Looks) that you may have previously created and saved, requiring them to be redefined.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b KingAir C90B Update Version 1.0.1 Description\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The following additional changes are made in version 1.0.1 of this update:\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The vertical speed UP / DN switch step increment has been decreased from 200 ft.to 100 ft. to allow finer vertical speed adjustment.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}The autopilot Roll / Heading mode has been tuned to reduce overshoot when turning to a new heading.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}The flaps type has been changed from Plain to Slotted to match the actual aircraft flaps.  The flaps lift and pitch parameters have also been re-adjusted to improve approach and landing performance, and to minimize pitch changes when the flaps are extended and retracted.\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}A -0.5 degree incidence angle has been added to the horizontal stabilizer to improve the takeoff trim and performance.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}The main landing gear struts have been tilted 5 degrees forward to more closely match the landing gear on the actual aircraft.\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab}Damping parameters have been added to all control surfaces to reduce the effects of sudden control movements, and to more closely match the actual aircraft controls.\par
{\pntext\f0 7.\tab}Compatability with the new updated XP 11.35 default C90B has been verified.\ul\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc KingAir C90B Update Version 1.1.0 Description\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The following additional changes are made in version 1.1.0 of this update:\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 This update now includes all of the new improvements and fixes made by Laminar in the X-Plane 11.40 release,  including the additional nacelle fuel tanks.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}The tire friction has been reduced to more closely match the actual aircraft.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}The Low Idle, High Idle and Reverse N1, and RPM have been adjusted to more closely match the actual aircraft.\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}The elevator UP limit and sensitivity has been changed to reduce overcontrolling during the landing flare.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}The previous -0.5 degree horizontal stabilizer incidence has been removed.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc KingAir C90B Update Version 1.1.1 Description\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The following additional changes are made in version 1.1.1 of this update:\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The Engine and Prop parameters have all been adjusted to more closely match the excellent actual aircraft flight performance data provided by @avnav.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}The engine Critical Altitude "flat-rating" parameter has been significantly increased to 12,000 ft.  to more closely match the actual aircraft high altitude power and torque performance data provided by @avnav.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}The engine and prop reverse thrust parameters have been adjusted to prevent the prop airfoil from stalling when reverse power is applied during the initial landing rollout.\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}The recommended takeoff trim with no flaps is 2 degrees UP, which is now set by default when the aircraft loads.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}The tire friction has been reduced further to more closely match the actual aircraft.  The aircraft now rolls easily under idle engine power and brakes must be used to control taxi speed, as in the actual aircraft.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\par
KingAir C90B Update Version 1.1.2 Description\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The following additional changes are made in version 1.1.2 of this update:\par
1.  The engine Critical Altitude has been increase further to 14,000 ft. to match the real world flight performance data provided by @avnav.\par
2.  The max Beta prop pitch has been increased to -15.5 degrees to match the full reverse pitch.  This allows full taxi speed control in Beta mode.\par
3.  The fuselage drag coefficient has been increased to 0.15 to match the real world flight performance data provided by @avnav.\par
4.  The Wing 1 element incidence angle has been reduced slightly to match the real world flight performance data provided by @avnav.\par
5.  The tire friction has been increased slightly.\par
6.  Beta mode simulation instructions have been added to the README file.\par
\ul\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc KingAir C90B Update Version 1.1.3 Description\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The following additional changes are made in version 1.1.3 of this update:\par
1.  The default CG has been moved forward slightly to more closely match the actual aircraft weight and balance.\par
2.  A new Weight and Balance Guideline has been added to the download for correctly setting the Payload and CG Sliders in X-Plane for different aircraft loading configurations.\par
\ul\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Installation Instructions\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b0 To install this update, simply copy the new \b C90B.acf \b0 file to the \b KingAir C90B \b0 Aircraft folder in X-Plane, overwriting the original file.  As always, you should first save a backup copy of the original file, just in case you don't like these improvements and later decide to go back to the original. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\par
Flying Tips\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Beta Mode Simulation\ulnone\b0\par
A turboprop engine has three basic modes;  a) Alpha mode, in which the throttle lever directly controls the engine power (N1) and torque,  b) Beta mode, in which the throttle directly controls the amount of reverse prop pitch, while the engine power remains fixed at either High Idle or Low Idle., and c) Reverse mode, in which the throttle again controls the engine power (N1), but the prop remains at max reverse pitch.  To simulate this behavior, do the following: \par
1.  To toggle between Alpha mode and Beta Mode, press the forward slash ( / ) key on the keyboard, or assign a button on your throttle quadrant.  When you are in Beta mode, advance the throttle to increase the reverse pitch of the prop, allowing you to easily control the amount of prop thrust all the way from idle (forward) to the max Beta mode pitch configured in Plane Maker (which should be full reverse pitch). \par
2.  To toggle between Alpha mode and Reverse mode, press the ( ? ) key, or assign a button on you throttle quadrant.  When you are in Reverse mode, advance the throttle to increase the reverse engine power (N1), up to the max reverse power configured in Plane Maker.  You can also assign a button (or key) to just hold full max reverse power at all times. \par
\par
}
 